---
title:  "PRUNE by regular expression"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [PRUNE]
image: "/assets/images/PRUNE_2.png"
visit: "https://tongzhou2017.github.io/itol.toolkit/articles/PRUNE.html"
---
## Introduction

The function of the `PRUNE` template is to select branches. The `PRUNE` template belongs to the "Tree structure" class (refer to the [Class]() for detail information).

Generally, users can select one branch or all branches within a node by entering the branch or node name. The selected branch will be included in the new phylogenetic tree, while the unselected branch will be excluded. This function is the only template function that changes the number of branches.

This section shows how to select branches in itol.toolkit. The process is very simple, and the main difficulty is that the user needs to determine which branches to be filtered. Without itol.toolkit, users have to perform data analysis and visualization preparation in fragmented environments. The itol.toolkit provides consistency to the workflow, allowing users to filter branches and output template files seamlessly.

## Prune nodes

This section uses [dataset 1](https://github.com/TongZhou2017/itol.toolkit/tree/master/inst/extdata/dataset1) as an example. (refer to the  [Dataset](https://tongzhou2017.github.io/itol.toolkit/articles/Datasets.html) for detail information)

The first step is to load the `newick` format tree file `tree_of_itol_templates.tree` and its corresponding metadata `df_frequence` and `template_parameters_count`.

The purpose of data processing in this section is to demonstrate how to select labels to be pruned according to users’ demands.

```R
library(itol.toolkit)
tree <- system.file("extdata",
                    "tree_of_itol_templates.tree",
                    package = "itol.toolkit")
df_frequence <- data.table::fread(system.file("extdata",
                                              "templates_frequence.txt",
                                              package = "itol.toolkit"))
data("template_parameters_count")
```

We can also filter branches according to their names. For example, E004 selects branches beginning with "DATASET_", which typically have complex parameter and format template requirements.

```R
select_tip = hub@tree$main$tip.label[startsWith(hub@tree$main$tip.label,
                                                "DATASET_")]
unit_4 <- create_unit(data = select_tip, 
                                 key = "E004_prune_2", 
                                 type = "PRUNE", 
                                 tree = tree)
write_unit(unit_4)
```